BSAD222 Banner - June 2017.png
Course Description and Learning Objectives
Course Description:

The Professional Enhancement Program (PrEP) is a series of classes designed to develop confident, professional, and connected students for lifelong career success. BSAD 222 is an eight-week face-to-face course occurring in the second half of the semester which allows you the opportunity to explore, develop, and articulate your career plans prior to applying for opportunities. In this course, you will explore your interests, skills, and values as well as potential career paths and industries. You will also create a professional résumé with 1:1 feedback from a coach and practice your networking skills with professionals.

Learning Objectives:

As a result of successful completion of BSAD 222, you will be able to:

Understand and apply the career development process to strengthen major and career decisions
Identify interests, skills, values, and Strengths and recognize how they apply to major and career selection
Evaluate and narrow your professional career goals
Create an action plan to develop transferable skills and make progress toward career goals
Write an effective résumé for professional development or internship opportunities
Network with professional and personal connections to explore business majors and careers
Instructor's Note:

This syllabus is a guideline. It can change based on instructor and student input, as well as unforeseen circumstances.

Course Requirements
This course is conducted primarily in the classroom, with all assignments and communication taking place through Canvas.  Students will need access to a reliable computer with internet and are expected to check Canvas daily. Technical requirements and support for Canvas can be found here.

Other Technology Needed:

This class requires the use of a webcam and microphone. If you do not have access to this equipment, computers with webcams are available by contacting the UNL College of Business ITS.
It also utilizes the following technologies or online platforms: Handshake and Zoom. For assistance on Zoom, see the ITS Zoom Video Conferencing Guide.
Written Assignments Requirements:

All written assignments must be submitted in a Word format (.doc, .docx). Microsoft Office Suite is available for free through your UNL Outlook account.
Communication
Instructor Role:

Section Instructor: Serve as the primary contact as it relates to overall class policy, grading, or attendance, and will teach the class each week. We will also send weekly announcements to the entire class via Canvas. Any extenuating circumstances impacting your progress in the course need to be communicated with your section instructor by sending a message over Canvas. 
Moderator: You will be assigned a Moderator, who will be your primary contact for grading-related questions. Your moderator will grade your assignments, provide advice and individualized feedback, and monitor your progress in the course. You will also be meeting with your moderator for your 1:1 coaching session.
Communication Methods & Response Time:

All communication outside of the classroom setting will occur through Canvas. You are expected to check Canvas Conversations daily.
In extenuating circumstances, your instructor or moderator may reach out to you via email. Any email communication will always be sent to your Huskers email address.
You can expect messages to be answered within 24 hours if the message was received between 8am and 5pm, Monday - Friday. Messages received after 5pm will be answered the next business day. Messages received on the weekend will be answered on Monday.
You are also expected to respond to messages from your instructor or moderator within 24 hours.
Expectations:

Utilize a short, yet descriptive subject line that includes "BSAD 222"
Address the instructor or your moderator professionally, such as Dear Instructor Caldwell. Refrain from informal openings such as "Hey" or launching directly into a question. Appropriate professional titles include Instructor/Moderator, Mr., Ms., Mx.
Messages should show signs of being proofread. Full sentences should be used, and messages should be both grammatically correct and spell-checked.
Check messages for tone. Messages are expected to be professional and utilize a respectful tone.
Include a closing and a signature identifying who you are.
*Any communication that does not follow these guidelines will be asked to be rewritten.*

Videos & Reading Materials
There are no required materials to be purchased for this course.

Any videos or readings required outside of the classroom setting to help you understand the course learning objectives and complete assignments will be provided in the module materials.
Students may reuse their assessment results from BSAD 111 or BSAD 111s for the CliftonStrengths assessment assignment. If you have not taken the CliftonStrengths assessment before, you do not need to purchase a code to take the assessment. A code will be issued via email once it has been verified that you did not take BSAD 111 or BSAD 111s.
Classroom Conduct
Students are expected to treat each other, the instructor, moderators, employers, and guests with the utmost respect at all times.

This includes arriving to class on time, staying for the duration of class or events, participating in discussions, actively listening, and submitting assignments on time.
Healthy debate and discussion is encouraged, but it is expected that you will do so in a way that maintains the dignity of each person as an individual and shows respect for different opinions. Any student caught being disrespectful of another person will be asked to drop the course.
 Professional Enhancement Program (PrEP) Academic Integrity Policy:

You may NOT reuse assignments completed for other PrEP courses which includes BSAD 111, BSAD 222, BSAD 333, and BSAD 444. An example of this includes résumé assignments, which must be updated from previous PrEP classes to reflect gains in knowledge and experience. If you received a grade of “No Pass” in a previous semester of BSAD 222 or withdrew from the course, you may NOT reuse any assignments completed for past BSAD 222 classes. That is defined as self-plagiarism and will be considered cheating.
Using external sources to copy professional career related documents and profiles (i.e. résumés, cover letters, LinkedIn) will not be acceptable for assignment submission. By copying, borrowing or purchasing templates and content from any source, you have not exercised original thought to communicate your experiences to employers. Additionally, paying others to create documents falls within this policy. If suspected in violation, the section instructor will review the assignment and determine appropriate action based on PrEP and course performance. The maximum penalty for plagiarism is a “No Pass” in this course.
Professional Enhancement Program (PrEP) Policy on the Use of AI:

While the use of generative AI tools (e.g. ChatGPT) is permitted in this course, all submissions (application materials, reflections, discussion board posts, etc.) must be in your own words and reflect your personal insights and lived experiences. When utilizing AI, remember that its purpose should align with enhancing your ideas rather than replacing them. Additionally, keep in mind that the quality of AI-generated content may not meet course standards.

Permitted AI Usage:

Brainstorming and refining your ideas
Checking grammar, writing style, and tone
Fine-tuning your existing materials by asking AI to identify gaps between your document and positions you are interested in
Non-Permitted AI Usage:

Writing or generating all or a significant portion of your application materials (résumés, cover letters, LinkedIn), reflection papers, or discussion board posts
Writing or generating entire bullet statements, sentences, or paragraphs to complete assignments
You are responsible for ensuring that your submitted assignments uphold academic integrity. Using AI in an unethical or irresponsible manner, such as copying or paraphrasing output, passing off output as your own work, or using output to misrepresent your knowledge or skills, is considered a form of academic dishonesty. Any misuse or violation of this policy may result in a No Pass grade or further disciplinary action as outlined in the above UNL policies.

UNL Course Policies & Resources
Students are responsible for knowing the university policies and resources found at https://go.unl.edu/coursepolicies: 

University-wide Attendance Policy
Academic Honesty Policy
Services for Students with Disabilities
Mental Health and Well-Being Resources
Final Exam Schedule
Fifteenth Week Policy
Emergency Procedures
Diversity & Inclusiveness
Title IX Policy
Other Relevant University-Wide Policies
Grading, Deadlines, and Extensions
This course is a one-credit-hour, Pass/No Pass course. You are required to earn a grade of "Pass" in BSAD 222 in order to graduate from the College of Business. The grade received for this course will be based on the following:

Required Assignments and Grading Breakdown
Course Assignment	To "Pass", students must:
Attendance/Participation
*Note that attendance for the networking event in module 7 is mandatory.

Attend all 6 in-person class sessions (Virtual Assignment for 1st day of Class, March 13th)
Class Conduct/Expectations Quiz	Score 100% (unlimited attempts)
Pre-Class Survey	Complete
Confirm end-of-semester (May 1st) Networking Capstone 	Complete
Résumé Formatting Quiz	Score minimum of 22/25 (2 attempts)
Big Interview Resume Scan	Complete (Gold Score Required)
1 Module Quiz	Score 80% 
4 Checkpoints (Coaching Session, Informational Interview, Handshake, Networking)	Complete
CliftonStrengths Report	Complete
Focus2 Assessment	Complete
Revised Résumé	Approved (prior to 1:1 coaching appointment)
Career Research	Complete
Career Growth Strategy & Action Plan	Complete
1:1 Résumé Coaching Session with Instructor	Complete
Professional Résumé	Almost Ready (Graded Rubric)
Informational Interview Reflection	Complete
Networking Event Reflection	Complete
Internship and Employer Survey, Post-Class Reflection, and Course Evaluation	Complete
Grading: This course uses competency-based grading. This means that grading in this course is NOT points-based, even though you may see points associated with assignments and quizzes. Points are merely used on quizzes to ensure you understand the material and to grade assignments fairly following a detailed rubric. The table above indicates the requirements you must complete to successfully pass this course.

Assignment Deadlines: All assignments are required to be submitted through Canvas on the due date by 11:59pm CT. Not meeting these requirements could result in a "no pass."

Grading Scale: The course is specifically designed to meet individuals where they are at in their career development and create opportunities, thus why many assignments are complete/incomplete or utilize a not ready to ready scale.

Not Meeting Requirements: If you happen to not meet a required score (e.g., earning less than the required quiz score or receiving an "incomplete" or "not ready"), reach out to your moderator proactively to discuss next steps.

To Pass: You will pass this course if you follow instructions, submit quality work based on the course material, and submit assignments on time. You will know if you were a high performer in this course based on your moderator's feedback as well as receiving a score of "READY" on graded rubric assignments.

Extensions: In the case of an extenuating circumstance that leads to an assignment being submitted late, you are expected to communicate as proactively as possible with your instructor or moderator (typically this should be within 24 hours of the missed deadline).

An extension will be provided if you are honest, professional, lead communication efforts, and establish a suitable assignment completion timeline.
If repeated behavior of needing extensions becomes evident or if you appear to be taking advantage of this extension policy, the section instructor or moderator holds the right to issue a No Pass.
Communication and timeliness are a part of professionalism. BSAD 222 moves quickly, so staying on top of assignments, following instructions, and communicating appropriately will ensure success in the course.
Attendance Requirements & Mandatory Out-of-Class Assignments (1:1 Coaching Session & Networking)
Classroom Attendance Policy:

BSAD 222 is a mini-semester course that moves quite rapidly; it also relies heavily on course discussions and activities. Therefore, attendance is crucial, and you are required to attend ALL of our class sessions to ensure you are able to achieve the course's learning objectives.

One Absence:
If you miss one class session, regardless of the reason (illness, personal circumstances, University events, etc.), you will be required to complete a make-up assignment.
This assignment will be sent to you via Canvas Inbox from your primary instructor.
Completion requirements typically include 2-3 pages of written work, accompanied by assigned readings and/or videos, designed to cover the material missed during your absence.
The make-up assignment will be due by 11:59 PM the night before the next scheduled class session.
Two Absences:
Due to the first class being virtual, missing a second class would result in missing nearly 30% of the course. A second absence without documentation of an extremely extenuating circumstance will result in a "No Pass" grade for the class.
Please communicate all attendance concerns with your instructor as far in advance as possible by reaching out via Canvas inbox or Outlook. 

Inclement Weather and Instructional Continuity Guidance:

If in-person classes are canceled, you will be notified of the instructional continuity plan for this class through Canvas. 

 Mandatory Coaching Session & Networking Event Attendance Policy:

1:1 Coaching Session (scheduled with your moderator between Monday, March 30th, and Friday, April 24th, time slots between 8:00am-5:00pm CT)

You must attend a coaching session with your assigned moderator, either in-person or virtually. You are responsible for scheduling this coaching session, and no-shows or last-minute cancellations are unacceptable and will not be tolerated.
You are expected to reschedule appointments at least 24 hours in advance. In the event of an emergency or illness, please contact your instructor or moderator directly within 24 hours to inform them of the situation.
If you schedule and then fail to attend 2 appointments without communicating with your instructor or moderator, you may be issued a "No Pass" for the course.
Networking Capstone Event - Friday, May 1st (Logistics & Expectations)

You will participate in a mandatory 50-minute networking session with professionals, which will occur on the final day of class. Please ensure you block your calendar and do not schedule any conflicts with this event. Details for registration will be provided before the 1st week of classes. 
Students who do not attend the networking event will be issued a "No Pass" for the course (if extreme circumstances arise, reach out to your section instructor immediately)
Downloadable Course Checklist
BSAD 222 Syllabus Checklist PDF

** indicates assignments subject to change 

Course Summary:
Course Summary
Date	Details	Due
Thu Mar 12, 2026	Quiz Class Conduct/Expectations Quiz	due by 11:59pm
Assignment End-of-semester (May 1st) Networking Capstone Confirmation	due by 11:59pm
Quiz Pre-Class Survey	due by 11:59pm
Sun Mar 22, 2026	Quiz Module 1: Assess Your Defining Experiences (Virtual)	due by 11:59pm
Quiz Résumé Formatting Quiz	due by 11:59pm
Thu Mar 26, 2026	Assignment Big Interview Résumé Scan	due by 11:59pm
Assignment Revised Résumé	due by 11:59pm
Sun Mar 29, 2026	Assignment 1:1 Résumé Coaching Session Sign-up	due by 11:59pm
Thu Apr 2, 2026	Assignment CliftonStrengths Report	due by 11:59pm
Assignment Focus2 Assessment	due by 11:59pm
Quiz Module 3 Quiz	due by 11:59pm
Sun Apr 5, 2026	Quiz Informational Interview Checkpoint	due by 11:59pm
Thu Apr 9, 2026	Discussion Topic Career Research: Exploring Your Career Options Discussion	due by 11:59pm
Sun Apr 12, 2026	Assignment Handshake Profile Checkpoint	due by 11:59pm
Thu Apr 16, 2026	Assignment Career Growth Strategy & Action Plan	due by 11:59pm
Thu Apr 23, 2026	Quiz Networking Event Preparation Checkpoint	due by 11:59pm
Fri Apr 24, 2026	Assignment 1:1 Résumé Coaching Session	due by 5pm
Sun Apr 26, 2026	Assignment Professional Résumé	due by 11:59pm
Thu Apr 30, 2026	Quiz Informational Interview Reflection	due by 11:59pm
Sun May 3, 2026	Quiz Internship and Employer Entry	due by 11:59pm
Quiz Networking Event Reflection	due by 11:59pm
Quiz Post-Class Reflection	due by 11:59pm
Assignment Attendance Make-up Assignment	 
Assignment Course Status	 
Assignment Final Grade	 
Assignment Quiz Reflection Assignment	 
Assignment Roll Call Attendance	 
