Elements of Physical Geography – Lab
GEOG 155, Sections 252, 256
Spring 2026, Burnett Hall 127

Lab Instructor
Chang Li
cli26@huskers.unl.edu
Office Location: Oldfather Hall 928
Office Hours: Tuesday 15:45 – 16:45 at BURN 127
Mailbox: School of Global Integrative Studies Main Office, Oldfather 816

ACE 4 Course: This is a UNL ACE 4 lecture and lab course.  ACE 4 is defined as 
“Use scientific methods and knowledge to pose questions, frame hypotheses, interpret data, and evaluate whether conclusions about the natural and physical world are reasonable”.

Required Lab Text:

Hanson et al.  Physical Geography 155 Laboratory Manual.  Lincoln: University of Nebraska-Lincoln Print Shop, 2022.

(Your Lecture textbook also has lots of useful info: McKnight Physical Geography- A Landscape Appreciation 13th edition.  Hess & Finch Pearson Publishing, 2021)

	Please download Google Earth Pro for Desktop as soon as possible. https://www.google.com/earth/versions/ This is a free software that we will be using for many labs, and the Online version is not a viable option for certain activities. It is available for PC, Mac, and Linux
	At least one person per table needs to bring a computer to lab classes in which we use Google Earth Pro. Most labs use Google Earth Pro.

Lab Description/Objectives: The overall objective of this course is for students to gain in depth knowledge of earth processes and characteristics.  This lab section is designed to supplement the GEOG 155 lectures through hands-on laboratory activities that will aid students in understanding the processes that determine the physical characteristics of the earth. This lab counts toward 25% of your entire Lecture/Lab grade. 

Lab and Lecture: The lab and lecture do not conform to each other per se, but they do complement each other. Sometimes, what you learn in lab will correspond to what you learn about in lecture, but not always.

Attendance:
	Students are expected to attend lab every week.  Attendance and participation are crucial to students’ success in class and lab.
	Missed labs due to athletic competition/travel or class field trips must be documented with official letters.
	Please provide at least 72 hours prior notice for excused events, for emergencies or unexpected absences please email within 24 hours after your scheduled lab.
	Missed labs are to be completed before the next lab class. Completed missed lab assignment pages and quizzes will need to be emailed prior to the next class unless further accommodations need to be made.
	As a matter of policy – you may miss one lab, unexcused. You are strongly discouraged from missing any labs. If you have more than one unexcused lab, you will receive a zero for the lab points at the end of the semester. Zero points for the lab results in failing GEOG 155.
	Active participation is expected. Personal Electronics must be in silent mode and not used during lab time (unless use is directed by your TA). Failing to follow will result in deduction of attendance points.
	Students may only leave after instructor’s dismissal of individual tables. Leaving early without permission will be considered as an unexcused absence.
	It is your responsibility to attend another lab, should you need to do a make-up. Here is what you must do – on your own:
	Check MyRed for other Section 250 lab times.
	Email instructor of lab regarding which lab you plan to attend.
	Follow up with lab instructor after attending another lab.

Lab Format:
Each lab period will consist of, in this order:
	
	Quiz
	Short lecture
	Completion of the workbook assignment in groups/tables
	Instructor review of work and dismissal of individual tables
	Measure outdoor temperature

Detailed information about the labs:
	READ the lab text BEFORE coming to class but DO NOT complete the lab assignment prior to attending lab, it is to be worked on within the lab period. Failing to follow will result in zero points for the lab manual assignment points.
	Each lab quiz occurs at the beginning of the lab period.  Students late to lab (more than 10 minutes) will not be allowed to take the quiz. The usage of personal electronic devices is strictly prohibited during quiz time. Failing to comply with will result in zero points for that quiz. The lab quiz will include review questions about the previous week’s lab, and new topics you will learn that week.
Week	Week of..	Lab	Topic
1	01/12	1	Introduction to Maps
2	01/19	2	Introduction to Topographic Maps
3	01/26	3	Introduction to Remote Sensing and GIS 
4	02/02	4	The Seasons and Time on Earth
5	02/09	5	Atmospheric Circulation Patterns and Winds
6	02/16	6	Fire History / Paleoecology / Lab Tour
7	02/23	7	Map Assignment Lab
8	03/02	8	Weather Fronts and Severe Weather
9	03/09	9	Earth’s Climate (Map Assignment Part 1 due)
10	03/16	No Lab	Spring Break – You can go to Robber’s Cave *
11	03/23	10	Groundwater
12	03/30	11	Soils (Robber’s Cave Assignment due)
13	04/06	12	Campus Rock Tour
14	04/13	13	Rivers and Streams
15	04/20 	14	Glaciers (Map Assignment Part 2 due)

	Before deciding to take the class pass/fail, please check with your advisor.
	* Must book in advance: call/text 402-975-0598, or email greenyj4@icloud.com, mention GEOG 155.

Grading:

	Students must pass both lecture and lab sections to pass GEOG 155.
	Each lab will have equal weight towards the final grade.
	Assignment deadlines are set in consideration of the difficulty. It is students’ responsibility to submit any assignments on time, and your submission should comply with the requirements. Late work will not be accepted.
	One unexcused absence will result in a zero grade for that lab. Two unexcused absences will result in failing GEOG 155.
	Grades will not be curved.

							
98– 100%	A+	87 – 89%	B+	77 – 79%	C+	67 – 69%	D+
93 – 97%	A	83 – 86%	B	73 – 76%	C	63 – 66%	D
90 – 92%	A-	80 – 82%	B-	70 – 72%	C-	60 – 62%	D-
						< 60%	F (Fail)
							

Academic Dishonesty:
All types of academic dishonesty, including plagiarism and cheating, will not be tolerated.  Students are expected to adhere to guidelines concerning academic dishonesty outlined in Section 4.2 of the University’s Student Code of Conduct (http://stuafs.unl.edu/DeanofStudents/Student%20Code%20of%20Conduct%20May%20Rev%202014%20a.pdf).  Students are encouraged to contact the instructor for clarification of these guidelines if they have questions or concerns.  
Special Needs & Disability Services:
Students with disabilities are encouraged to contact the instructor for a confidential discussion of their individual needs for academic accommodation. It is the policy of the University of Nebraska to provide flexible and individualized accommodation to students with documented disabilities that may affect their ability to fully participate in course activities or to meet course requirements. To receive accommodation services, students must be registered with the Services for Students with Disabilities (SSD) office, 132 Canfield Administration, (402) 472-3787 voice or TTY.
Counseling and Psychological Services:
UNL offers a variety of options to students to aid them in dealing with stress and adversity. Counseling and Psychological & Services (CAPS) is a multidisciplinary team of psychologists and counselors that works collaboratively with Nebraska students to help them explore their feelings and thoughts and learn helpful ways to improve their mental, psychological, and emotional well-being when issues arise. CAPS can be reached by calling 402-472-7450. Big Red Resilience & Well-Being (BRRWB) provides one-on-one well-being coaching to any student who wants to enhance their well-being. Trained well-being coaches help students create and be grateful for positive experiences, practice resilience and self-compassion, and find support as they need it.  BRRWB can be reached by calling 402-472-8770.

Emergency Response:
	Fire Alarm (of other evacuation):  In the event of a fire alarm: Gather belongings (purse, keys, cellphone, NCard, etc.) and use the nearest exit to leave the building.  Do not use the elevators.  After exiting, notify emergency personnel of the location of persons unable to exit the building.  Do not return to the building unless told to do so by emergency personnel.
	Tornado Warning: When sirens sound, move to the lowest interior area of the building or designated shelter.  Stay away from windows and stay near an inside wall when possible.
	Active Shooter:  
	Evacuate:  If there is a safe escape path, leave belongings behind, keep hands visible, and follow police officer instructions.
	Hide out:  If evacuation is impossible, secure yourself in your space by turning out lights, closing blinds, and barricading doors if possible.
	Take action:  As a last resort, and only when your life is in imminent danger, attempt to disrupt and/or incapacitate the active shooter.
	UNL Alert:  Notifications about serious incidents on campus are sent via text message, email, unl.edu website, and social media.  For more information, go to: http://unlalert.unl.edu.
	Additional Emergency Procedures can be found here:  http://emergency.unl.edu/doc/Emergency_Procedures_Quicklist.pdf

