Course Syllabus
Jump to Today
MNGT
101
Syllabus
Instructor Information
Shawntell Kroese
Shawntell Kroese

skroese2@nebraska.edu

Office Hours: Wednesday 10-11am & by Appt

HLH 325J

 

 

Expectations surrounding reply to email’s:  I will respond to emails within 24 hours.  If you have an emergency or need a faster response, please text me at 402.980.3266.
Course Description
MNGT 101- Introduction to Business provides a broad introduction to the core disciplines of business -covering areas such as management, marketing, finance, supply chain management, economics and accounting.  In this class, students will develop critical thinking and problem-solving skills and will be exposed to a variety of business scenarios.  You will apply foundational concepts in a real-world business competition, along with applying what they learn to current issues and current companies. 

Course Objectives
By the end of this course, students will be able to:

Recognize the core disciplines of business and explain how they interconnect within an organization.
Demonstrate increased confidence in navigating college and business environments.
Apply critical thinking to real-world business problems.
Collaborate effectively in teams, demonstrating leadership, accountability, and cooperation.
Communicate business ideas clearly, both verbally and in writing, across diverse contexts.
Begin building a professional network and establish strong peer relationships within the College of Business.
Course Materials
There will be no book for this class; instead, please use the Guided Notes and other resources posted on Canvas.

Graded Assignments
The grade for this course will consist of the following components.

graded assignments
Daily assignments and/or reflection assignments 	10 points each
Exams (3)	40 points each
Business Battle Submissions	50 points 
Business Battle Team Member Evaluation	35 points
Business Battle Peer Feedback	30 points
Recitation Participation & Assignments	10 points each
Recitation Coach Meeting	20 Points
Grading Scheme
Grading scheme
Percent Range	Letter Grade
100 % to 97.0% 	A+
97.0 % to 92.0%	A
92.0 % to 90.0%	A-
90.0 % to 87.0%	B+
87.0 % to 82.0%	B
82.0 % to 80.0%	B-
80.0 % to 77.0%	C+
77.0 % to 72.0%	C
72.0 % to 70.0%	C-
70.0 % to 67.0%	D+
67.0 % to 62.0%	D
62.0 % to 60.0%	D-
60.0 % to 0.0%	F

Grading Policies
To promote fairness and flexibility, your two (2) lowest scores on Assignments will be dropped from the final grade calculation. This policy recognizes that everyone may occasionally encounter challenges, illness, or conflicts during the semester. Because of this built-in flexibility, additional absences or missed assignments beyond the two dropped scores will not be excused and will simply result in lost points.

Similarly, the two (2) lowest Recitation Participation scores will also be dropped.

This class does not offer extra credit or round grades, so it important to attend and participate in class throughout the semester.

Attendance Policy
It is critical for students to attend class. Each class period will offer an opportunity to earn points through in-class assignments, reflections, knowledge checks, and or guided notes. These points cannot be made up outside of class meaning class attendance plays a crucial role in your ability to succeed.

Academic Integrity & AI
The use of A.I. tools like Chat GPT is neither encouraged nor prohibited on assignments for this course. If you choose to use Chat GPT for assignments, please be sure to revise the content for clarity, conciseness, and audience awareness. Chat GPT is simply a tool and should not be used as a way to produce first and only drafts. Every assignment submission will be graded using the rubric provided in the syllabus. Be aware that Chat GPT may not develop high-quality work that earns a passing grade. It is your responsibility to review and revise all work before submitting to the instructor. 

Late Work Policy
I will not accept late work in this class.  However, I will allow students to drop 3 of their lowest scores ( Daily Assignments/Reflection Assignments, Knowledge Checks, or Guided Notes assignments).  No late work will be allowed for tests or anything associated with the Business Battle.

Expectations for Student Conduct
As a student in this course, your role is to be an active, engaged participant in your own learning.  Come prepared to class and bring your questions and ideas.  Take initiative in your learning and seek help when you need it.  Support a class culture of collaboration, curiosity, and be a good team player in team projects and activities.

This class will be a safe place for intelligent dialogue and perspective, and it will provide practical experience that will help you in your future endeavors.  

Under the Course and University Policies you'll find the College of Business Academic Integrity policy. For this course that means: 

Do your own work on all assignments and exams. 
Do not attempt to gain any advantage by fabrication of events. 
Attendance Policy 
It will be critical for students to attend the class.  Each class period, there will be given points as part of some of these components. 

Daily Assignments and/or Reflection Assignment (total of 14, worth a total of 700 points)
Knowledge Checks (total of 14, worth a total of 700 points)
Guided Notes (total of 14, worth a total of 700 points)
Teaching & Learning Philosophy
My role as the instructor is to facilitate learning, by creating a supportive and inclusive environment.  I want to build your confidence as you start your College of Business experience.  I want to encourage critical thinking through discussion, assignments, and activities.  And help you build your professional acumen and prepare you for future business opportunities, both academically and professionally.

A good instructor cares about their students and works to inspire learning, by building trust, and fostering growth.  The instructor is genuinely excited about their subject and the opportunity to teach.  She knows the material deeply and stays current in her field.  She should be adaptable and wants students to succeed in their class and in life. 

Respondus Lockdown Browser & Monitor
This course uses Respondus LockDown Browser for some exams and quizzes. This is a proctoring tool that disables web browsing and messaging while taking an exam or quiz. Respondus LockDown Browser can be downloadedLinks to an external site. here through UNL and is free of charge. You will need to sign in using your UNL credentials. Students must ensure the browser is downloaded, installed, and up to date before their exams or quizzes.

Use the LockDown Browser: The Student ExperienceLinks to an external site. guide to get started.

UNL Policies
The University of Nebraska-Lincoln has policies and support services that include the following:

University-wide Attendance Policy
Academic Honesty Policy
Accommodations for Students with Disabilities Policy
Resources for students seeking mental health help
Final Exam Schedule
Fifteenth Week Policy
Emergency Procedures
Diversity & Inclusiveness
Title IX Policy
Details on these policies can be found on https://go.unl.edu/coursepolicies.

Academic Support
The Center for Academic Success and Transition (CAST) provides free academic coaching, success workshops, and study stops which provide UNL students with extra help on their coursework.

CAST webpage
CAST Academic Support Webpage
Schedule a Coaching SessionLinks to an external site.
Counseling and Psychological Support
Counseling and Psychological & Services (CAPS) is a multidisciplinary team of psychologists and counselors that works collaboratively with Nebraska students to help them explore their feelings and thoughts and learn helpful ways to improve their mental, psychological and emotional well-being.

Schedule your appointment with CAPS
Counseling and Psychological Services webpage
CAPS can be reached by calling 402-472-7450 (even after hours).
Accessibility Support
The University strives to make all learning experiences as accessible as possible. If you anticipate or experience barriers based on your disability (e.g. physical disability, learning disability, ADHD, chronic health issue, mental health condition, complications with a pregnancy, long Covid, temporary injury, or other condition), please let me know immediately.

To better establish reasonable accommodations, I may request that you register with Services for Students with Disabilities (SSD).

SSD contact information:

Services for Students with Disabilities | Nebraska
117 Louise Pound Hall, Lincoln, Nebraska, 68588
402-472-3787
Writing Support
The Writing Center is here to support you in your writing for all your coursework at UNL.

Writing Center Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) for Students
Writing Center Online Services
Schedule an Appointment
 Grammarly
Grammarly is available for College of Business students. You can access Grammarly with your UNL SSO here: go.unl.edu/grammarlysignup.

Tech Support
For help with Canvas, click the Help (?) link in the lower left-hand corner of the navigation bar.

For other computer-related technical support, contact the Huskertech Help Center.

Phone: 402-472-3970
Submit a support ticket: https://nusupport.nebraska.edu/Links to an external site.(or email nusupport@nebraska.edu)
UNL Tech Services for Students
The following are tech services available for students at UNL.

Wifi on Campus
Campus App
University Technology Services
Online Testing Centers
HuskerTech
Printing
Open Nebraska
Download Copy of Syllabus 

Course Summary:
Course Summary
Date	Details	Due
Mon Jan 12, 2026	Quiz Monday Jan. 12 Wrap Up	due by 1:30pm
Wed Jan 14, 2026	Quiz Wednesday January 14 Wrap Up	due by 11:59pm
Fri Jan 16, 2026	Quiz Week 1 Attendance and Assignment	due by 1:30pm
Wed Jan 21, 2026	Quiz Wednesday Jan. 21 Wrap Up	due by 1:30pm
Quiz Completion of Survey	due by 11:59pm
Mon Jan 26, 2026	Quiz Monday Jan 26 Wrap up	due by 1:30pm
Wed Jan 28, 2026	Quiz Wednesday Jan. 28	due by 11:59pm
Mon Feb 2, 2026	Assignment Monday, February 2 Assignment	due by 11:59pm
Fri Feb 6, 2026	Quiz Week 3: Reflection Assignment	due by 11:59pm
Fri Apr 3, 2026	Assignment Coach Meeting Reflection	due by 11:59pm
Assignment Schedule Coach Meeting	due by 11:59pm
Quiz Exam #1	 
Assignment Extra Credit: The Smartest Guy in the Room	 
Quiz Wednesday Feb. 4 Wrap Up	 
Assignment Week 2 Reci Attendance	 
Quiz Week 2 Recitation	 
Assignment Week 3 Reci Attendance	 
Assignment Week 4 Reci Attendance	 
Assignment Week 5 Reci Attendance	 
Assignment Week 6 Reci Attendance	 
Assignment Week 7 Reci Attendance	