Welcome!
I believe many of you have never been exposed to the sales process as a learning opportunity, but all of you have experienced sales (or being sold to) on a nearly daily basis. You've all sold something to someone at some point and may not have even realized it.  I'm excited to delve into the concepts and processes of sales and truly hope this course makes you a better business person, salesperson, and a better consumer.

I've been teaching sales for over 11 years and advertising, marketing, and sports marketing/promotion for over 20 years.  As a professor of practice, I'm lucky to have the opportunity to bring over 30 years of professional experience to the classroom.  

It's my job to help facilitate learning and to help students.  To this end, if you ever have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact me.  I truly look forward to the semester and this course.

Chad Mardesen

Associate Professor of Practice, Marketing and Sales

image of your instructor
 Chad Mardesen

 Teacher

 cmardesen@unl.edu

 402-472-3120

 Howard L. Hawks, HLH 345Q

Office Hours (in person and virtual): Tuesdays and Thursdays, 9:30 AM to 10:30 AM (and by appointment)

Link to Zoom meeting:  https://go.unl.edu/mardesenspring26officehours

 

QR Code for Office hours (Zoom):

 

mardesenspring26officehours.png

 

TA:   Nate Weber;  nweber9@huskers.unl.edu

 

Step 1: Read the course syllabus and course schedule
The course syllabus will provide you with the course schedule, course objectives, explanations of assignments and assessments, grading policies, and instructor contact information. Please read it carefully. You should have a deep familiarity with the grading, schedule and process of the course.

Step 2: Purchase your textbooks
Your textbooks include:

Selling: Building Partnerships (11th ed.); Stephen B. Castleberry & John F. Tanner, 2013; (ISBN-978-1-259-57320-0)
The bookstore's ACCESS program eBook is an option for this text; please see the syllabus for an explanation of how this works; you'll need to opt out of this program to avoid charges if you prefer to use only the printed version of the textbook or secure the textbook from another source
Step 3: Library information and student support
The UNL Libraries has a business librarian available to help you identify reputable resources throughout the libraries and answer your business research questions.

Interlibrary Loan - request delivery of books and articles from UNL and other institutions
Grammarly - is an advanced grammar and plagiarism checking tool available only to students currently enrolled in College of Business courses. Go to grammarly.com/edu/signup and create an account using your @unl.edu or @huskers.unl.edu email address.

Writing Center - Located in 102 Andrews Hall, the writing center staff is available to help you develop your writing skills and polish your paper to succeed. 

Business Information Resources and Library Services - provides guidance to finding books and articles, finding company information and provides links to services for business students.

Company and Industry Information Resources - discover company and industry surveys and metrics, census data, and company articles.

Step 4: Technical expectations and resources
To interact with the technology in this course you are expected to be able to do the following:

Upload a file as an assignment submission. For more information on this topic: Canvas Student GuideLinks to an external site.
You will need a strong internet connection with high enough speed to handle viewing online videos and possibly Zoom class meetings and handle uploading role play videos to Canvas
You may potentially need the ability to record role play assignments on a phone or other recording device (webcam, video camera, etc.)
The Technical Requirements page identifies the browsers, operating systems, and plugins that work best with Canvas. If you are new to Canvas quickly review the Canvas Student Orientation materials.

Expectations for academic integrity
Plagiarism & Citation Guide - This is an introduction to the topic of plagiarism. It defines plagiarism, explains why it is a violation of academic integrity and the Student Code of Conduct and shows you how to avoid it.

Citation Management Tools - these tools help you organize your citations and automatically format citations or references in MLA, APA, Chicago, and many other styles.

How to Succeed in the Course
While students are different, there are a few ways you can greatly impact your learning and success in this course.

Read the textbook assignments and understand key concepts and definitions
Watch the posted lectures and guest speaker videos, take notes and understand the concepts therein
Utilize practice exam questions throughout lectures; use practice quizlets
Take part in class discussions, be engaged and active
When any concepts are confusing, ask questions in and out of class; if you receive a grade on an exam or project that you'd like explained, set up a time to meet with your professor or TA 

Course Syllabus
MRKT 257-001
Sales Communication
Spring 2026

University of Nebraska-Lincoln, College of Business
Course Description
Course Description:  Provides an introduction to the fundamentals of sales communication including verbal, listening and written skills. Students learn the various components of the selling process, develop a written selling plan, and gain experience in executing each step of the selling process through role-play exercises. 

Selling is a fundamental part of not only business but everyday life. You are called upon to sell all the time – whether it is an idea, product, service, or point of view. This course is designed to teach you about sales communication, including communicating with entities internal and external to the organization. The course also focuses on the role of personal selling in business and how salespeople carry out their duties. We will review the different aspects of the sales task and how to accomplish these jobs effectively and efficiently. The course will utilize a variety of learning approaches including, but not limited to: (1) required readings, (2) role-plays, (3) observational learning, (4) lectures, and (5) open discussion about various sales-related issues.

The objectives of this class are for you to:

Improve your communication skills: verbal, written, and listening
Foster a customer-oriented and ethical approach to professional selling
Develop critical thinking skills and decision-making abilities as it pertains to relevant sales topics
Enhance your ability to “sell”, including selling yourself and selling your ideas to others
Via experiential learning, demonstrate an understanding and application of the sales process
ACE Credit
Learning Outcome: MRKT257 satisfies ACE Learning Outcome 2A: demonstrate communication competence by employing a repertoire of communication skills for developing and maintaining professional and personal relationships.

The opportunities to learn and the assignments that enable achievement of this outcome include:

Role Plays: Each student will engage in recorded role plays comprising: (a) one five-minute (approximate) individual role play to execute the SPIN selling concept (Situation, Problem, Implication, Need-Payoff), and (b) one 15-minute (approximate) individual role play to demonstrate knowledge of the critical elements of the selling process, within a simulated buyer-seller sales situation.  The due date for these respective role plays is on Canvas (and follows on this syllabus), this will allow grading to begin sooner and will help everyone receive a grade and feedback as quickly as possible.
Written Selling Plan: This is a written team assignment where each team will prepare a written plan for a successful sales call. The selling plan should include: value proposition, features/benefits summary, competitive comparison, delineation of promotional support elements, and a business proposal.
In addition to these assignments, three exams will test the students’ understanding of the concepts taught in this course.

Textbook & Reading Materials
Course Text: Selling: Building Partnerships (11th ed.); Stephen B. Castleberry & John F. Tanner, 2013; (ISBN-978-1-259-57320-0) - REQUIRED

The bookstore's ACCESS program is provisioning eBook access for each student enrolled in this course; you should have received an email from "donoreply@redshelf.com" to your huskers.unl.edu email address with information on how to access the digital material, and an email from "noreply@follett.com" explaining ACCESS and referencing the opt-out process.  For the fall term, students can  opt-out (or to opt back in after initially opting out) if they choose to obtain the required material through another means; if a student opts out of the eBook access, UNL will remove the eBook fee from the student's account.  The dates for these opt-out/out-in are in the email received from the Bookstore and Brytewave.

Here's the way you can access BryteWave in Follett ACCESS program: ACCESS_Instructions_6.pdf

Additionally, students can use the link on the Canvas Navigation Bar, just click on "BryteWave Course Materials"

Course Website: Canvas, MRKT 257-001.1258

Course Materials: Harvard Business Review (HBR) Case(s)  (if needed)

Course Schedule Details
Meeting Time: Tuesday and Thursday, 8:00 AM to 9:15 AM, HLH 020

Meeting Location: HLH 020 (Auditorium B)

Course Schedule	 
Date	Topics Covered, Required Readings, Exercises & Group Projects 
13-Jan	Class Material: Syllabus Review/Class Objectives
15-Jan	Class Material: Chapter 1: Selling and Salespeople
20-Jan	Class Material: Chapter 13: Building Partnering Relationships
22-Jan	
Class Material: Chapter 2: Ethical and Legal Issues in Selling

27-Jan	Class Material: Chapter 3: Buying Behavior and the Buying Process
29-Jan	Class Material: Chapter 4: Using Communication Principles to Build Relationships
3-Feb	PROJECT REVIEW SESSION | EXAM 1 REVIEW SESSION (open Q&A)
5-Feb	
EXAM 1 DUE:  Ch. 1, 2, 3, 4, & 13 (no class)

Exam given at the DLC; please see the DLC website for the range of available exam dates
10-Feb	
Review Role Play 1 Assignment

12-Feb	
Class Material:  Chapter 5: Adaptive Selling for Relationship Building

17-Feb	
Class Material:  Chapter 6:  Prospecting

19-Feb	Class Material:  Chapter 7:  Planning the Sales Call
24-Feb	Class Material:  Chapter 8: Making the Sales Call
26-Feb	Guest Speaker - TBD
2-March	
ROLE PLAY LAB RESERVATIONS OPEN (HLH 045)

See Project Module for Instructions on how to make a reservation

3-March	
Class Material:  Chapter 9:  Strengthening the Presentation

4 & 5 March	ROLE PLAY LAB OPEN (HLH 045 - Lab Hours are 8:30 AM to 4 PM)
5-March	
ROLE PLAY 1 DUE (uploaded to Canvas by 5 PM)

10-March	
Center for Sales Applications Due

10-March	Class Material:  Chapter 10:  Responding to Objections
12-March	Guest Speaker - TBD
16 - 20 March	SPRING BREAK - NO CLASS
24-March	
Exam 2 Review Session (Open Q&A)

26-March	
EXAM 2 DUE: (Ch. 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 & 10)

Exam given in the DLC; check the DLC website for the dates the exam is available.

31-March	Selling Plan Review/Exam 2 Review (Open Q&A)
2-April	Class Material: Chapter 11: Obtaining Commitment
7-April	Class Material:  Chapter 12:  Formal Negotiating
9-April	
Class Material:  Chapter 14:  Building Long-Term Partnerships

SELLING PLANS DUE (submitted to Canvas by midnight)

14-April	
ROLE PLAY 2 REVIEW SESSION

16-April	Class Material:  Chapter 15:  Time and Territory
16-April	
ROLE PLAY LAB RESERVATIONS OPEN (HLH 045)

See Project Module for Instructions on how to make a reservation

20 & 21 April	
ROLE PLAY LAB OPEN (HLH 045 - Lab Hours are 8:30 AM to 4 PM)

21- April	
ROLE PLAY 2 DUE (uploaded to Canvas by 5 PM)

23-April	
Class Material:  Chapter 17:  Managing Your Career

28-April	
Guest Speaker - Sean Murphy - Pacific Life

30-April	
Exam 3 Review & Open Q&A

Course Wrap-Up

6-May	EXAM III Due: Ch. 11, 12, 14, 15, 17 & Speakers
This exam will be given in the DLC; please check the DLC website for available dates.
 

Timeline of Assignments, Exercises, Projects & Tests
Project	Due Date
1	
Part I: SPIN Selling

3/5/26
2	
Part II: The Selling Plan

4/9/26
3	
Part III: The Role-Play

4/21/26
4	
Part IV: Peer Evaluations

4/21/26
Tests	Date
1	
Exam I (Ch. 1, 2, 3, 4, 13)

2/5/26
2	
Exam II (Ch. 5, 7, 8, 9, 10)

3/26/26
3	
Exam III (Ch. 11, 12, 14, 15, 17 & Guest Speaker Info)

5/6/26
Canvas Information
Canvas is where course content, grades, and communication will reside for this course.

The URL to access Canvas is: http://canvas.unl.edu 
For Canvas, passwords, or any other computer-related technical support contact the IT Help Center.
Phone: 402-472-3970
Website: http://mysupport.unl.edu/ 
Submit a support ticket: mysupport@unl.edu 
 Course Policies
Grading and Course Information
Exams
Exams will cover material from discussions, speakers & speaker videos (when applicable), additional videos and assigned readings. Although classroom lectures will serve to highlight and reinforce key topics and issues, they are not intended to replace your textbook. It is critical that you read and comprehend all assigned materials prior to the corresponding exam session. Exam format is multiple-choice questions. Anyone caught cheating or using a cellular phone during an exam will be asked to leave and will receive a ZERO on that exam.

Group Assignments
The group component of this course is the Selling Plan document; the grade on this assignment will be based on working with a team. Students will work in teams of four or five students. Additionally, you will submit a peer evaluation of your group members and their contribution to the assignment. See “Sales Communication Projects” document for guidelines on the Selling Plan & Peer Evaluation assignments.

Selling Project
Part I: SPIN Selling (50 Points; Individual Grade)
This is an individual role-play assignment, meaning everyone must complete the SPIN sell (each student will perform the sales-person role in the role-play). The purpose of this assignment is to improve and assess your ability to ask questions and turn customer responses into actionable recommendations. You are required to submit an approximately 5 minute video with a partner (other student, friend, etc.) with a team/group member, during which you will execute a sales situation:  you'll record a SPIN (Situation, Problem, Implication, Need-Payoff) role-play with a buyer. The SPIN will be based on the same case as the rest of The Role-Play project (Parts II & III).  You are graded as the seller so you MUST complete a role play-acting as the seller.  These videos will be completed using the Center for Sales Excellence Lab (located in HLH 045).  An instruction sheet will be posted as part of your assignment on Canvas - this sheet will explain making your reservation and recording your video.  You must submit your assignment by the 5 PM on the due date of the assignment, if you submit your assignment after that time you may receive late deductions.
Part II: Selling Plan (50 Points; Group Grade)
The purpose of the selling plan is to prepare your team for a successful sales call. The selling plan should include: customer value proposition, customer benefit proposition, competitive comparison, delineation of promotional support elements, solution quantification, and buyer profiles.  If you submit your assignment after the due date and time, you may receive late deductions.
Part III: The Role-Play (100 Points; Individual Grade)
The purpose of the Role-Play is to demonstrate the selling principles and techniques discussed in class over the course of the semester. Using the product highlighted in the Role-Play (published on Canvas) you will be selling using information from the case as well as information you created in your Selling Plan; each student will execute one 15-minute (approximate) sales call during which you will demonstrate your knowledge of the critical elements of the selling process. This role-play will serve as a comprehensive demonstration of the course material within a simulated selling situation. Like the SPIN selling (Part 1), each student will execute and submit (via Canvas) one 15-minute (approximately) role-play.  These videos will be recorded using the Center for Sales Excellence lab in HLH 045.  An instruction sheet will be posted as part of your assignment on Canvas - this sheet will explain making your reservation and recording your video. You must submit your assignment by the 5 PM on the due date of the assignment, if you submit your assignment after that time you may receive late deductions.
Part IV: Peer Evaluation (25 Points; Individual Grade)
All students must complete and submit the Peer Evaluation Form for all team members, including the student themself. Do not email the peer evaluation to the instructor or TA;  the peer evaluation should be submitted via canvas, no exceptions.   If you do not submit a peer evaluation, evaluating the members of your group, you may receive a reduced peer evaluation score.
Canvas
Lecture videos (when possible) and other course materials will be distributed via the course Canvas page. Be sure to frequently check announcements and changes. You will submit all assignments via Canvas.  I will utilize Canvas and email to communicate important course information.

Incomplete
An instructor uses the grade of an “I” (Incomplete) at the end of a term to designate incomplete work in a course. It should be used only when the student was unable to complete the requirements of the course because of illness, military services, hardship, or death in the immediate family. A grade of “I” should be given only if the student has substantially completed the major requirements of the course. Arrangements to remove an Incomplete should be made with the instructor who taught the course.

Changes to Schedule or Syllabus: 
The syllabus is a general plan for the course. Modifications, verbally or in writing, may be necessary to fit our course objectives.

Grading
Assignment Distribution
Exam/Activity	Maximum Points	Percentage of Grade	 
Exam I	100	16.67%	
Exam II	100	16.67%	50%
Exam III	100	16.67%	
SPIN Selling	50	8.33%	
Selling Plan	50	8.33%	
The Role-Play	100	16.67%	50%
Peer Evaluation	25	4.17%	
Attendance	75	12.50%	
Total Available Points	600 Points	100%	100%
 

Class Grading Scale
Total Points	Percentage Points	Course Grade
579-600 Points	97 - 100%	A+
555-578 Points	93 - 96%	A
537-554 Points	90 - 92%	A-
519-536 Points	87 - 89%	B+
495-518 Points	83 - 86%	B
477-494 Points	80 - 82%	B-
459-476 Points	77 - 79%	C+
435-458 Points	73 - 76%	C
417-434 Points	70 - 72%	C-
399-416 Points	67 - 69%	D+
375-398 Points	63 - 66%	D
357-374 Points	60 - 62% 	D-
< 357 Points	Below 60%	F
Expectations for Student Conduct
Display respect, courtesy, and professionalism to professor and classmates 
Watch and answer follow up questions for all lectures and guest speakers (this counts towards your attendance grade)
Read and be prepared to discuss all assigned readings
Actively participate in discussions and activities
Complete and submit all assignments on time 
Adhere to University of Nebraska- Lincoln policies on academic honesty 
Class Attendance and Tardiness
All students are expected to be present and regular in attendance for scheduled classes and open labs. Absences will be considered justified and excusable only in cases of emergencies, serious illness or death in the immediate family.   Regular attendance is critical for your success in this course.

I want to create an environment in which you are mentally engaged in class by reading the material beforehand and coming prepared with something to contribute. To encourage this, a portion of your course grade will depend on your attendance and participation (the total available points split 50/50 between the two). Your attendance grade will be dependent on your presence; however, your participation grade will be determined based on the quality of your input in class. Sheer quantity of comments, with minimal depth or relevance to the focal issues will carry little weight. Since attendance only accounts for half this grade, if you have a perfect attendance record, but never participated in class, you can expect to receive only half the points. Unprofessional behaviors such as, coming late to class, leaving early without permission, falling asleep or being disruptive, can and will impact your grade.

Missing Class: If you want to be excused from class for a valid reason (e.g., job interview), check with me beforehand, preferably through email. If you are unable to attend class because you fall sick or have some last-minute emergency, send me an email or leave a message in my voice mailbox before class. For excused absences, I will give attendance points for the class, but you should not expect to receive any participation points, since you were not there to participate in the learning process. No points will be awarded for unexcused absences or if notice is given for any reason after the beginning of class. Further, if you miss more than 25% of the classes, you should not expect a passing grade in the course irrespective of your performance on the tests and other components of the course.

AI Use Policy
The use of A.I. tools like Chat GPT is neither encouraged nor prohibited on assignments for this course. If you choose to use AI tools for assignments, please be sure to revise the content for clarity, conciseness, and audience awareness. Chat GPT and AI tools like it, are just tools.  However, it is extremely important that AI tools don't stand alone and represent your entire effort on a project.  It's important that your own original work and thoughts drive your work because learning only occurs when that effort is your own. 

It is also important to note, every assignment submission will be graded using the rubric provided in the syllabus. Be aware that Chat GPT may not develop high-quality work that earns a passing grade. It is your responsibility to review and revise all work before submitting to the instructor.  

Since writing, analytical, and critical thinking skills are part of the learning outcomes of this course, all writing assignments should be prepared primarily by the student. Developing strong competencies in this area will prepare you for a competitive workplace. While A.I. is readily available and can be useful in some circumstances, it is essential that you learn basic skills to help you identify what good writing looks like before you’ll be able to accurately and ethically employ their use. 

 

Inclement Weather Notification for Syllabus

The university’s campus closing options regarding classes will be:

· all classes are canceled.

· in-person classes are canceled and follow instructional continuity plans.

· all classes are conducted as usual.

In the case that all classes are canceled for inclement weather, we WILL HOLD CLASS via Zoom.  An email with a Zoom link will be sent via Canvas and posted to the course announcements at the time the university has announced the official campus closure for inclement weather.

Make-Up Work
While the syllabus includes dates for exams, the exam dates may be extended by a day or two due to DLC availability.  Exams will be conducted within the date windows indicated on the DLC scheduling website. Project role-plays will all have specific due dates. No make-up examinations or extended deadlines on projects will be provided unless arranged and agreed upon in advance of the dates on your syllabus (Canvas) or the DLC registration system.  Decisions regarding make-up exams and projects will be made on a case-by-case basis. To preserve the integrity of these processes, I reserve the right to change the content (i.e., questions) and/or format (e.g., multiple-choice vs. essay) of make-up work.

Attention
Inappropriate behavior during discussions distracts your instructor and classmates, thus is unacceptable. You may be dismissed from class if your behavior disrupts classroom activities. If everyone "shows up" and is engaged and respectful of others, the experience will be much better for everyone.

Harassment Policy
This class and the University will not tolerate harassment or discrimination of any type, including that due to race, gender, religion, etc. If harassment occurs, please contact the instructor (Chad Mardesen), the Chair of the Marketing Department (Dr. Amit Saini), the Dean of the College of Business (Dean Kathy Farrell), or the UNL EEO/Affirmative Action Office.

 College and University Policies
University Policies
The University of Nebraska-Lincoln has policies and support services that include the following:

University-wide Attendance Policy
Academic Honesty Policy
Accommodations for Students with Disabilities Policy
Resources for students seeking mental health help
Final Exam Schedule
Fifteenth Week Policy
Emergency Procedures
Diversity & Inclusiveness
Title IX Policy
Details on these policies can be found on https://go.unl.edu/coursepolicies.

Writing Support
The Writing Center can provide you with meaningful support as you write for this class as well as every course in which you enroll. Trained undergraduate and graduate peer consultants are available to talk with you about all forms of communication. You are welcome to bring in everything from lab reports, presentations, and research papers to cover letters, application essays, and graduate theses and dissertations. Writing Center Consultants can work with you at any stage of the writing process, from brainstorming and organizing your ideas through polishing a final draft.

There are two ways you can connect with a Consultant: Online (a real-time, video conversation) and eTutoring (email feedback). To learn more about these options and view video tutorials, please visit https://www.unl.edu/writing/online-writing-center-services. Sign up any time by visiting unl.mywconline.comLinks to an external site.. For more information about the Writing Center, please visit unl.edu/writing.

If you would like to save a PDF copy of this syllabus for your records you can open your browser's Print dialog and set your print destination to "Save as PDF" or "Microsoft Print to PDF."

Covid Policies & Resources
As it has done throughout the pandemic, with regard to COVID-19 safety and health protocols, the University of Nebraska–Lincoln continues to follow the most recent guidance from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Lincoln-Lancaster County Health Department.

More information can be found on the University's COVID-19 information website.

Recording of Class-Related Activity
I invite all of you to join me in actively creating and contributing to a positive, productive, and respectful classroom culture. Each student contributes to an environment that shapes the learning process. Any work and/or communication that you are privy to as a member of this course should be treated as the intellectual property of the speaker/creator, and is not to be shared outside the context of this course.

Students may not make or distribute screen captures, audio/video recordings of, or livestream, any class-related activity, including lectures and presentations, without express prior written consent from me or an approved accommodation from Services for Students with Disabilities. If you have (or think you may have) a disability such that you need to record or tape class-related activities, you should contact Services for Students with Disabilities. If you have an accommodation to record class-related activities, those recordings may not be shared with any other student, whether in this course or not, or with any other person or on any other platform. Failure to follow this policy on recording or distributing class-related activities may subject you to discipline under the Student Code of Conduct.

Technology Access Policy
The College of Business online classes have been designed to give students the freedom to complete course work from anywhere in the U.S. or the rest of the world with reliable internet access.

Issues with internet access will not be accepted as an acceptable excuse for missing deadlines or failing to complete assignments. Examples of these issues could be lack of internet access, cessation of internet access (in particular if right before a deadline), or blocked access to Canvas and other sites from foreign countries (e.g., China), or any other.

The general recommendation for students is to avoid waiting until right before a deadline to work. If you are in Lincoln, you can always come to campus to use local computers and internet access if your personal computer or internet fails. For students outside Lincoln, having time to spare is also a good idea, as you can work on your assignments as soon as your internet access is restored. If you know in advance that you will be away from a reliable internet connection for a period of time during this class, please contact your instructor as soon as possible to see if accommodations can be arranged.

Academic Support Services
You can schedule free appointments for individual academic coaching with Center for Academic Success and Transition (CAST) staff through MyPLAN.  You can also take advantage of study stops--which provide individual and group study with learning consultants in a variety of disciplines--and free group workshops on topics such as time management, goal setting, test preparation, and reading strategies.  See success.unl.edu for schedules and more information.